# Question 1

## I. What is an operating system? What are the main purposes of an operating system?

## II. Define the essential properties of the following types of operating systems:

### Batch

### Time sharing

### Dedicated

### Parallel

### Multiprogramming

## III. Under what circumstances would a user be better of using a time-sharing system rather than a PC or single-user workstation?

# Question 2

Consider a computer system with a single-core processor.

There are two processes to run in the
system:

- P1
- P2.

Process P1 has a life cycle as follows:

- CPU burst time of 15 units, followed by
- I/O burst time of minimum 10 units,
- followed by CPU burst time of 10 units.

Process P2 has the following life cycle:

- CPU burst time of 10 units,
- followed by I/O burst time of minimum 5 units,
- followed by CPU burst time of 15 units.

Now answer the following questions:

## a)

Considering a single programmed operating system, what is the minimal total time
required to complete executions of the two processes? You should explain your
answer with a diagram.

## b)

Now considering a multiprogrammed operating system, what is the minimal total
time required to complete executions of the two processes? You should explain your
answer with a diagram.

## c)

Throughput is defined as the number of processes (tasks) completed per unit time.
Following this definition, calculate the throughputs for parts a) and b) above. How
does multiprogramming affect throughput? Explain your answer.

# Question 3

## I. What is the performance advantage in having device drivers and devices synchronize by means of device interrupts, rather than by polling (i.e., device driver keeps on polling the device to see if a specific event has occurred)? Under what circumstances can polling be advantageous over interrupts?
